# Machine Learning for Monitoring Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl Substance (PFAS) in California's Wastewater Treatment Plants

Although wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) have been spotlighted as potential sources of PFAS pollution, comprehensive U.S. data and research outlining PFAS contamination in WWTPs remain uneven and incomplete. By collecting WWTPs public datasets in California (over 200 WWTPs), we compiled a WWTP-PFAS-CA database covering PFAS concentrations in the influent, effluent, and biosolids, with information on the sampling time, location, wastewater sources, and treatment process. Overall, total PFAS concentrations in the wastewater effluent were higher than in the influent, as well as most of the individual PFAS species. We also identified the potential features impacting the PFAS transformation and transport in wastewater treatment. The concentration of PFAS in wastewater depends on industrial sources, treatment process levels, and other conditions. Additionally, we used machine learning methods to develop predictive models for assessing the risk of PFAS presence in wastewater effluent and biosolids, providing insights into key environmental factors that influence PFAS concentrations. Individual PFAS were correlated with each other within the same wastewater matrix, as well as in between different wastewater matrices. To improve the accuracy of prediction, we added PFAS effluent as inputs to predict the PFAS risk in biosolids. This ongoing study provides a data-driven perspective on PFAS behavior within wastewater treatment plants.
